I am writing with enthusiasm regarding the open position in your Department. My research program balances the perspectives of both experimental-oriented inquiry and system-level data analyses. Such a focus has the potential to advance innovative, interdisciplinary research in the areas of computational biology and data science. I am interested in building collaborations and developing an independent research program that straddles computing, data science, theoretical biology, and the biological sciences. 

As an interdisciplinary researcher, I take a three-pronged approach to scientific investigation. The first is the use of data from experimental models to take inspiration from the complexity of biological processes. For example, I have published and co-authored papers focused on systems such as cell culture, model organisms (Caenorhabditis elegans), and experimental evolution. I have significant expertise in the analysis of both primary and secondary data, and can impart this expertise to both students and interdepartmental collaborations. This approach also leverages data in the service of theoretical work. An example of this is a longstanding interest in combining multimodal data sources with complex dynamic models of neural systems. These include neuronal and developmental cell connectivity, neuromechanical models, and the augmentation of human performance. Perhaps most impressively, my research agenda involves the development of more general computational/statistical models such as evolutionary algorithms, cellular automata, and the analysis of trees and networks. From a statistics perspective, this provides a bridge between the tools of data analysis and the understanding of emergent complexity.

This approach is a quite powerful way to discover novel features in biological systems that will allow for the development of fundamental theoretical insights through both big data analysis and innovation in the analysis of sparse datasets. It also provides opportunities for interdisciplinary collaboration and cutting-edge research opportunities for students. In the realm of instruction, I am interested in teaching a wide range of courses, ranging from Bioinformatics and Systems Biology to courses on Open Data Science and Complex Systems methods. I have also taken an active role in online learning, having been an instructor in online short course and content creator for a series of microcredentials.

Included in this application is a CV, a research statement, a teaching statement, and a list of professional references. For the latest research updates, be sure to visit my personal research website: http://bradly-alicea.weebly.com. If you have any questions, please let me know. I look forward to hearing from you soon.

Sincerely,

Bradly Alicea
