As an interdisciplinary and multiracial scientist, I have both a personal stake in and ongoing commitment to fostering diversity in the learning and research environment. I have experience working with people of varied cultural backgrounds in a laboratory environment, and value intellectual synthesis. My diversity strategy involves engagement in teaching and research, career development strategies, and institutional support. 

My intellectual experience includes teaching in a wide variety of settings, from large lecture hall classrooms to small groups and laboratory settings. In my research and teaching plans, I look forward to offering short courses and research opportunities as part of the laboratory activities. This will provide unconventional opportunities which open doors for non-traditional participants. I have also developed a Laboratory Contribution Philosophy, which is an algorithm for maximizing research success by encouraging contributions given a wide variety of backgrounds. As a recruitment tool for increasing diversity, the Open Career Development project (https://osf.io/fqc82/) has potential as an important source of training and mentorship. 

As a postdoctoral scholar, I was a part of the Professorial Advancement Initiative (PAI) sponsored by the BTAA (Big Ten Academic Association). This program provided me with expertise in mentoring and managing a thriving, diverse laboratory. Some of what I have learned from this program is currently being applied to the Open Career Development project. As a Senior Contributor at the OpenWorm Foundation, I have contributed to increasing participation in open science amongst women and minority volunteers. As I plan to integrate my involvement with the OpenWorm Foundation into a University-based research program, these efforts will also serve as a guide to my diversity strategy. 

Finally, due to my experience in managing and enriching educational communities, I feel qualified to make significant contributions to Departmental and institutional committees for increasing diversity in general and participation of underrepresented students in particular. I plan to engage students from many different backgrounds with educational and research opportunities at the intersection of computational biology, developmental/evolutionary biology, data science, and neuroscience. This will provide a wider variety of opportunities for intellectual growth and development. 
