**Neuroscience Teaching Statement**  
I view Neuroscience as a multidisciplinary field that requires a highly diverse set of methods and tools. This is reflected in my own education, which spans Cell Biology, Evolutionary Biology, Anthropology, Computational Science, and Human Factors Engineering. This resembles six core areas of competence: ontogeny and phylogeny, behavior, mechanism, simulation, complexity, and experimentation. I believe that all Neuroscientists should have a working understanding of each area. In addition, a well-rounded curriculum should involve integrating these competencies into the fabric of education and research activities. These competencies can also be presented to students in a variety of ways: from specialized courses to short course tutorials to distributed learning.  
  
How might the core areas of competency be imparted in practice? One way is to take an integrative view of a special topic such as Neuromechanics, a case for which I have developed a sample syllabus (https://www.academia.edu/1729922/Fundamentals_of_Neuromechanics). Within this topical area, we can address multiple perspectives in order of how they facilitate understanding. In the sample syllabus, I have organized the various perspectives by case study (and relevant research groups), each of which serve as a bridge to a larger domain of problems. As a way to encourage specialization, students would then select a specific case study to explore further. In this way, students are exposed to a variety of perspectives without being overwhelmed by the typical broad survey approach.  
  
I also advocate for short courses which stress the application of measurement and computational tools. One example of this is a basic Neurotechnology tutorial for Human-Computer Interaction (https://www.academia.edu/4136020/Introduction_to_Neurotechnology_short_course). Generally, a short course consists of a single or multiple sessions of a 1-2 hours, and includes both a lecture component and a hands-on laboratory component. Implementing short courses within a Neuroscience program would fill the gap between semester-long courses (which often do not include cutting-edge methods), and the informal training one receives through a laboratory rotation.  
  
To gain exposure to computational skills such as model building and data management, I can offer a conduit to distributed open science communities. Open Science communities such as the OpenWorm Foundation (http://openworm.org/) can introduce students and potential collaborators to an international network of experts. Open Science communities allow for scientific contributions of all types, from science communication (blog posts on niche topics) to Neuroinformatics (developing scientific visualizations).  
  
My instructional approach also includes complementary and supplemental learning opportunities that can be used to bring people up to speed on niche topical areas, research skills, and very specific technological competencies. As a senior contributor at the OpenWorm Foundation, I have worked on developing curricula for microcredentials (https://www.badgelist.com/OpenWorm). Microcredentials are small instructional units presented in the form of digital badges. Digital badges are highly-interactive and can be designed to complement a broader curriculum. I have designed badges in the following areas: Literature Mining, Hackathon hosting, Worm Development, and Peer Review. I view microcredentials as a way to supplement traditional education with more esoteric skills not covered in the main course curriculum.  
  
Aside from exercising these basic instructional skills, I am also a proponent of giving the students a broader context of information for their learning experience. Supplemental forms of instructional media can be used to achieve this goal. One example of this are something I call “flash lectures”. Here is an example Flash lecture on Human Performance Augmentation (https://www.academia.edu/4340732/Human_Performance_Augmentation_Flash_Lectures). While this has been mainly in the format of Tumblr blog posts, flash lectures are easily transferrable to other platforms. Flash lectures are organized around a particular specialized topic or news item, and include images (diagrams, graphs, and pictures), topical information, and a formal list of references. In this way, instruction becomes an extended process that allows for feedback both within and outside the classroom community. Flash lectures and other supplemental media are not only useful as a pedagogical device. For example, students can create them as part of a class project or homework exercise in the way that they might create a wiki page. This interactive aspect is key in terms of extending the knowledge-creation and learning experience of the classroom to the world at large.  
  
To get a more complete picture of my approach to teaching, I have prepared an online teaching portfolio that includes a teaching history, sample syllabi, and course materials from past offerings. In addition, the Orthogonal Research and Educational Laboratory website (https://orthogonal-research.weebly.com/) includes pedagogical materials such as open badges and video lectures. As I wish to integrate my research apparatus with learning opportunities, there are a number of unexplored synergies in this relationship.  
