# Research Statement

	As someone who is enthusiastic about the research enterprise, I look forward to establishing a research program that provides opportunities for intellectual discovery, outreach/education, and innovation. My approach to research is highly interdisciplinary. Having built upon research and broader educational experience in multiple traditional fields of science, I have gained the ability to lead research that is both integrative and transformative. I also have experience doing research in many different settings, from large, interdisciplinary groups to two-person collaborations and independent research. This broad range of experiences has provided me with the tools to push the frontiers of scientific discovery.

## Topical Interests and Background
	From a topical perspective, I am broadly interested in development, evolution, cognition, and complex systems. I have pursued this course by earning degrees and conducting research in multiple fields. I started my career in the Anthropological and Biological Sciences, and then moved into integrating these interests with an additional interest in Computational Science. More recently, I have developed expertise in molecular and cell biology while making additional connections with Computational Science. Over the course of my career, this has translated into both novel research outcomes and an appreciation for different scientific points-of-view. One highlight of how this perspective can yield high-profile research is the Nature Reviews Neuroscience paper “Virtual Reality in Neuroscience Research and Therapy”. By combining applied Computer Science, Psychology, Communication, and Applied Physiology, my colleagues and I were able to address an emerging research topic in a unique manner.

Having conducted research in multiple fields before formally earning my PhD (which is reflected in my teaching experience), I formally earned my PhD in 2013 in the area of Stem Cells and Cellular Reprogramming. My dissertation, “Reprogramming to the Nervous System”, features empirical studies, computational models, and cross-species comparisons. The research completed for this dissertation involved both innovative molecular techniques and bioinformatics. The associated knowledge has advanced understanding in the areas of cellular stemness properties and the cellular reprogramming process as it relates to the derivation of induced pluripotent (iPS), neuronal (iN), and skeletal muscle (iSM) cells. While not the most high-profile work of my career, this dissertation is a profile in the type of integrative and cutting-edge research style I bring to a Professorial position.

After the PhD, I began working at the intersection of development, evolution, and computational modeling. For the past two years, I have been working with the OpenWorm Foundation to develop models and data analysis techniques related to Caenorhabditis elegans embryogenesis. This has resulted in the creation of an OpenWorm Foundation subgroup called DevoWorm (http://devoworm.weebly.com/). As a project organizer, I have gained experience with managing multiple lines of research, mentoring undergraduates and graduate students, and realizing collaborative visions in the form of tangible scholarship.

## Laboratory Structure and Research Plan
Having worked both independently and collaboratively with several research groups over the past few years, I have already developed a laboratory infrastructure called [Orthogonal Research Laboratory](https://orthogonal-research.weebly.com/) that is ready to implement in a University setting. Orthogonal Laboratory currently augments data science and theoretically-oriented research in computational and systems biology with external collaborations. These external collaborations provide a source of primary experimental data at a number of biological scales, as well as computational expertise. 

A primary mission of the Orthogonal Research Lab is to produce cutting-edge research and provide educational opportunities in the areas of data modeling, data analysis, and artificial life simulation. Orthogonal Laboratory will consist of three: biological and cognitive data gathered through collaboration, data analysis and computational/theory research, and a virtual presence. Our biological data synthesis research will focus on data science and simulation to answer targeted questions about behavior, development, evolution, and biological self-organization. 

Between these resources and on-campus collaborations, Orthogonal Lab will also provide new research opportunities in a variety of areas. One research theme is defined by the [DevoWorm](https://devoworm.weebly.com/) research group. The DevoWorm group has done significant work on exploring the comparative and systems-level aspects of development, with a focus on the nematode _C. elegans_. This includes opportunities in the areas of developmental dynamics, the simulation of morphogenetic processes, and the study of reproductive and developmental plasticity. Another research theme is currently coalesing around complex systems and behavioral modeling, utilizing computational methods and analytical frameworks such as complex networks to gain a better understanding of culture and cognition. Orthogonal Lab is also defined by an active educational and outreach component. For example, there will be opportunities to participate in scientific software development and neuroinformatic data analysis through connections to the [OpenWorm Foundation](http://www.openworm.org/). 

This research agenda will take two future directions. The first direction involves growing and sustaining the DevoWorm project and more generally linkages between the Orthogonal Lab and the OpenWorm Foundation. In its current form, DevoWorm is a distributed, collaborative project. While this project has been focused on the nematode _C. elegans_ (a commonly used model organism), we have also included data from a diversity of organisms including _Drosophila melanogaster_ (fruit fly), _Ciona intestinalis_ (sea squirt), and _Ambystoma mexicanum_ (Axolotl). In the future, the project will focus on the connections between lineage trees and complex networks, comparisons of embryogenesis across species, and the application of complexity theory to biological questions. 

The other direction involves using virtual environments and the tools of complexity theory to study human and animal cognition. This is a continuation of themes explored during my time in the MIND Lab at Michigan State. Having experience in social science research and research connections with the Media Neuroscience Laboratory at the University of California-Santa Barbara, I can leverage these connections to produce novel, cutting-edge research. This social- and cognitive-oriented research can add a new dimension to the biological and computational research ongoing in the other theme in new and exciting ways, ranging from the biology of intelligent behaviors to informing analytical methods and studying the practice of science. As the goal of the OpenWorm project is whole organism simulation of the nematode, the goal of this research direction would be holistic modeling of cognition and behavior in humans and other animals.

## Broader Contributions
One of my organizational goals in a faculty position is to be engaged in the interdisciplinary opportunities across campus. I have an interdisciplinary background in both Cognitive Science and Computational Biology. This is not only reflected in collaborations or inclusion of different disciplinary perspectives, but also involves building an infrastructure based on intellectual mindset. Additionally, I am motivated to use many of those interdisciplinary benefits as a bridge to the home Department. In conjunction with my teaching abilities, I feel that my presence as a faculty member would greatly benefit both your Department and campus community.
