## Teaching Statement

My teaching style is rooted in the context of interdisciplinary science. My body of teaching experience ranges from small groups in laboratory-based instruction (< 30) to large lecture hall courses (> 650) and guest lectures. To put intellectual rigor and topical synthesis in pedagogical context, my instructional style stresses conceptual integration by bringing together multiple perspectives and fostering independent thinking. I also have an appreciation for diversity of thought (learners) and innovation in teaching. This draws from my experience teaching courses in multiple topical areas (Computer Science, Anthropology, Biology, and Complex Systems). Such a wide range of experiences has given me an appreciation for how to engage students from different backgrounds and how they gain insight from the presented material. 

### Teaching Style:<br>
Stylistically, my approach to curriculum-building is a mix of technical detail and big-picture context, as I have experience in both technical and basic science subjects. While I favor the lecture and laboratory practical styles of instruction, I also have experience with science outreach and instructional media such as virtual reality and blogs. These enhanced forms of instructional media include the use of collaborative online informal learning environments as instructional tools. While lecture and laboratory practical approaches allow for competency in fundamental concepts and principles, outreach and supporting instructional media can serve to reinforce these concepts with enriched context. A mixture of these two styles is especially useful in applying the dictum “learning by doing” to abstract topical and basic science domains. Active learning is an effective way to demonstrate to students that facts and knowledge of topical areas are often subject to revision.  As a faculty educator, I plan to leverage these resources in the service of enhancing the student learning experience. 

An emphasis on interactive teaching practices benefits students in two ways. The first is to connect students to differing perspectives from both within and beyond the classroom. My approach is less an emphasis on in-class group learning and more on extracurricular opportunities. One way to achieve this is by encouraging individual scholarship that goes beyond the required reading materials and assignments, which only have a lifespan of a single semester-long course. Another is by encouraging both intense sessions of open collaboration (Hackathon-style events) and interactive collaboration more generally. Perhaps more importantly, this type of approach encourages teaching students to engage with and present their scholarship in a more interactive format. This can provide a period of engagement with classmates and instructional material well beyond the duration of the formal class time. 

One example of this integrative approach to pedagogy is evident in the variety of course types in which I have been involved. An extended version of this document is included in this application. One type of course for which I have teaching experience is the laboratory practical, as I taught General Microbiology Laboratory at Michigan State University for two semesters. Due to this experience, I gained expertise in hands-on instruction in microbiological techniques for sections containing 14 students. This type of instruction requires both one-on-one hands-on instruction as well as group instruction and coordination. My experience with this class format also includes serving as a teaching instructor for two lab-based information technology courses in Human-Computer Interaction at Michigan State University. This course format has enhanced my ability to supervise small groups engaged in design, experimental methods, data analysis by emphasizing one-on-one and small group (2-4 students) interactions between student and instructor.

I also have experience with large lecture hall courses, particularly ones with associated discussion/lab sections. I taught Human Sexuality at the University of Florida for two semesters, which provided me with expertise in coordinating lecture topics for smaller-group discussion groups and instruction in term paper writing. As the teaching assistant for General Anthropology (University of Florida), I was involved in similar activities, but to a smaller class size. By contrast, I have experience with similar pedagogical activities in the context of a moderate-sized honors course. I was also a teaching assistant for Development of World Civilizations at the University of Florida. In this course, I took an active role in preparing exams, tutoring with students, and guest lecturing. My goal for future teaching is to bring this diverse set of experiences together in order to provide innovative and effective learning opportunities.

## Teaching Innovation:<br>
Aside from exercising these basic instructional skills, I am also a proponent of giving the students a broader context of information for their learning experience. This is consistent with the Scholarship of Teaching (SOT) and Research-Based Instructional Strategies (RBIS) approaches to pedagogy. One way in which I enable this is by providing students with extensive supplemental reading materials. This provides them with the tools to treat the object of learning as a research problem. Yet I am interested in modes of teaching beyond reflexive forms of instruction. As a senior contributor at the OpenWorm Foundation, I have worked on developing curricula for microcredentials. Microcredentials are small instructional units presented in the form of digital badges. Digital badges are highly-interactive and can be designed to complement a broader curriculum. I have designed badges in the following areas: Literature Mining, Hackathon hosting, Worm Development, and Peer Review. I view microcredentials as a way to supplement traditional education with more esoteric skills not covered in the main course curriculum.

In terms of incorporating supplemental forms of instructional media into the curriculum, I have been experimenting with something I call “flash lectures”. While this has been mainly in the format of Tumblr blog posts, flash lectures are easily transferrable to other platforms. Flash lectures are organized around a particular specialized topic or news item, and include images (diagrams, graphs, and pictures), topical information, and a formal list of references. In this way, instruction becomes an extended process that allows for feedback both within and outside the classroom community. Flash lectures and other supplemental media are not only useful as a pedagogical device. For example, students can create them as part of a class project or homework exercise in the way that they might create a wiki page. This interactive aspect is key in terms of extending the knowledge-creation and learning experience of the classroom to the world at large.

## Topical Interests:<br>
My interdisciplinary perspective and strength in theoretical synthesis will serve to enhance learning opportunities both within the home department and across campus. I am interested in teaching a number of basic courses in the department. In addition to these courses, I can provide new course content that supplements the Departmental curriculum. 

One way to bolster the current curriculum is to offer short courses and tutorials through my research laboratory on a variety of methodological topics. I have also designed several topical courses in the areas of biological, cognitive/neuro, and computational science. One such course is a seminar on Bioinformatics and Systems Biology. My perspective on the topic would focus on how the predictive power of theoretical frameworks such as evolution can be augmented by computational methods. I have previously taught a course module called Evolutionary Systems Biology which I plan to use as a template. As the Evolutionary Systems Biology course was designed to teach computationally-oriented students how to understand biological phenomena and engage in biological data analysis. A revised version of the course would feature a similar cross-disciplinary perspective.

Aside from competence in teaching basic statistical methods, I have has a long-term interest in organizing a course on advanced data analysis and the role of intelligent systems in data science. This includes engaging students with technologies they otherwise would not encounter, in addition to considering the philosophical issues data analysis. One such course would focus on evolutionary and adaptive computing. With an eye towards how complexity theory interfaces with computational technologies, topics might include human-assisted AI, Augmented Cognition, intelligent/ubiquitous agents, and evolutionary computation. I co-hosted the Hard-to-Define Events Workshop (HTDE) in 2012 that addressed the topic of using less-common forms of analysis to solve difficult and unexpected problems in science and engineering. If hired, I would like to have the opportunity to continue this discussion in the form of a graduate seminar.

## Instructional Assessment and Additional Materials:<br>
In terms of instructional assessment, I am a proponent of forms of holistic assessment such as data-driven evaluation. Data-driven evaluation combined with some form of continuous assessment over the course of the term could allow for an adaptive curriculum based on student understanding and retention. One way to engage the students on a more continuous basis throughout the term is to design courses around homework or other creative (either individual or small group) activities. This keeps learners engaged, while a mix of activities can encourage diversity in the learning experience. 

To get a more complete picture of my approach to teaching, I have prepared an [online teaching portfolio](https://independent.academia.edu/BradlyAlicea) that includes a teaching history, sample syllabi, and course materials from past offerings. In addition, the [Orthogonal Research Laboratory](https://orthogonal-research.weebly.com/) website includes pedagogical materials such as open badges and video lectures. As I wish to continue integrating my research apparatus with learning opportunities, there are a number of unexplored synergies in this relationship.

